RecordingAnalysysID|ProjectID|SchoolTypeID|IDNumber|Transcription|EditedTranscription|Rating|Keywords|HasProfanityAgent|HasProfanityCaller|HasMissingAudio|HasObjectionableContent|DateCreated|FirstEditBy|FirstEditOn|SecondEditBy|SecondEditOn|hasAlumniPostEditReview|FirstEditTranscriptionFeedback
12948|3256|1|86123301|Alright. We are recording now. So you can start whenever you're ready, Ms. Handy-Jones.


Okay. I went to Delaware State, it was Delaware State College at that time in 1975. I've met so many great people that we have lifelong friendships now. My friends that I met there were Wanda Queen, Sylvia Berny, David, Shiela Boston, and I met Pamela Jorna. And we are all still friends today. I loved staying in Tubman Hall, I met many great people there. We loved the second floor that we lived on because one of those wings had, was like a wing that was on level and had a bathtub. Everybody loved to take turns using that bathtub because it was like a home away from home. I had a great roommate during my freshman year, Lynn Perkins who I still stay in contact with today. I loved the way that the campus was. I love when we have intramural sports, especially the basketball team. It was a group of us, we always rooted for the young men that played that were from Florida, the 'Gators' we used to call them. And going to the student center every Friday night, that was just like a sociable time to have the dances that people love. But I love being in the Home Economics department, which I majored in Child Development and Family Relations. I remember Dr. Adam, Dr. Stephenson, who has just celebrated being 105 one of the oldest people from Delaware State. Also, going back now just to see all the changes that are really so good that you know that the college is making progress progressive. I just want to say to anybody that is considering going to HBCU, do it. Because that is the best experience of your life. And you will always have those lifetime memories and you will meet good people. And when you go back there, it will just make you so proud and happy that you attended that college and I love Delaware State University.


That's what we tried to instill in our children because you gonna get lifelong experience. The people that you meet. It's a little different. I've gone on a lot of college tours to a lot of diverse universities. HBCUs, I think they're the best. Just like someone else who went to another university would say! That's why they desire to go. My son went. He had a great time there. He went to the same university where I went to. He met so many friends, even people he is still friends with today.|I went to Delaware State in 1975. I met so many great people that we have lifelong friendships now. My lifelong friends are Sylvia Burney, Shelia Boston, Pamela Joyner, and Wanda Queen. I loved staying in Tubman Hall, where I met many great people. I had a great roommate during my freshman year, Lynn Perkins, who I still stay in contact with today. I loved when we would have intramural sports, especially the basketball team. It was a group of us that would always root for the young men from Florida, the 'Gators' we used to call them. I loved going to the student center every Friday night for sociable time and dances. I loved being part of the Home Economics Department. I remember Dr. Adam and Dr. Stephenson, who just celebrated turning 105 as one of the oldest people from Delaware State. Going back now, I love to see all the changes that are really good to show the college is making progress. I just want to say to anybody that is considering going to an HBCU, do it. It is the best experience of your life and you will always have those lifetime memories. It will make you so proud and happy that you attended that college. You are going to get lifelong experience. It's a little different. I've gone on a lot of college tours to a lot of diverse universities. I think HBCUs are the best. My son went to Delaware State and had a great time there and made his own lifelong friends.|4|Friends,Legacy|False|False|False|False|2019-05-30 13:56:07.720000000|PCI100201||PCI100055|2019-08-06 10:55:42.870000000|True|
12949|3256|1|86088607|All right, Mr. Brown. You can start whenever you are ready.

All right, my name is Paul Brown. I was a transfer student from Seton Hall University in 1984 where I was a communications major and I transferred to Delaware State as a business administration major. I was on the track and field team as a student athlete. At my
I was a communications major at Seton Hall and I transferred to Delaware State in 1984 as a business admin major. I was on the track and field team, student athlete. In my last semester at Delaware State, I ran out of my scholarship funding. So I went to the alumni administration and they granted me some funding to finish up two courses in order for me to get my degree.  It was the Dean of the English Department who helped me and told me what to do. I told him, I need help. What should I do? He told me not to worry about it. He picked up the phone, called over to the alumni office, spoke to someone, and when I got there, they took care of it. I went over and they lent me the funds so I was able to take the two classes and graduate. Now that's the story. I will never forget that. Never. Cause if it wasn't for that, I would not have been able to graduate.

I will never, ever forget that. Ever.
It was huge because when I transferred over to Delaware State, I knew I had to get my degree. I was insistent that I couldn't go home without a degree. I am one of nine children and the first one in the family to graduate.  It meant a lot. And I still think about that today.  Now anytime I get a postcard or phone call, I always respond because I remember how I was able to get my degree and I am indebted to Delaware State for the rest of my life. I need to be sending some funds there to help someone else out who is in that same similar situation.|I was a Communications major at Seton Hall University and transferred to Delaware State in 1984 as a Business Administration major. I was a student-athlete on the track and field team. In my last semester at Delaware State, I ran out of my scholarship funding, so I went to the alumni association. They granted me some funding to finish up two courses in order for me to get my degree. It was the dean of the English Department who helped me and told me what to do. I told him, 'I need help. What should I do?' He told me not to worry about it. He picked up the phone, called over to the alumni office, spoke to someone, and when I got there, they took care of it. They lent me the funds so I was able to take the two classes and graduate. Now that's the story. I will never forget that. Never. If it wasn't for the alumni association, I would not have been able to graduate. It was huge because when I transferred over to Delaware State, I knew I had to get my degree. I was insistent that I couldn't go home without a degree. I am one of nine children and the first one in the family to graduate. It meant a lot. I still think about that today. Anytime I get a postcard or phone call, I always respond because I remember how I was able to get my degree. I am indebted to Delaware State for the rest of my life. I need to be sending some funds there to help someone else who is in that same situation.|3||False|False|False|False|2019-06-03 10:39:21.253000000|PCI100201||PCI100020|2019-08-05 15:51:58.110000000||
12950|3256|1|86166003|We came back as adults that lived here and over for quite a while and then I retired from teaching and now I do tours of our historical area here and over in our legislative hall. So I'm still including history of Dela State and the fact that there's a Lockermin house right in the back of Dela State's grounds.  So when we talk about Dover and the Lockermin family it's like, right up there!


So you would do walk-in tours?
Yeah. I work for the first aid heritage park now and then do tours of legislative hall.

Awesome. So where did you develop your love for the history of those things like that?
I'm a native Delawarean. I was born in Wilmington. My parents were born in Wilmington. My father was an Irish immigrant. My mother's parents are Hungarian immigrants and my father actually served in the legislature here in the 1930s so Delaware is in my blood.|We came back as adults and have lived here in Dover for quite a while. I'm retired from teaching and now I do tours of our historical area here and of our legislative hall. I'm still including the history of Delaware State and the fact that there's a Loockerman house right in the back of Delaware State's grounds, so when we talk about Dover and the Loockerman family, it's right up there! I work for the First State Heritage Park now and do tours of the legislative hall. I'm a native Delawarean. I was born in Wilmington. My parents were born in Wilmington. My father was an Irish immigrant. My mother's parents are Hungarian immigrants and my father actually served in the legislature here in the 1930s, so Delaware is in my blood.|3||False|False|False|False|2019-06-03 12:56:04.300000000|PCI100020||PCI100201|2019-08-02 10:40:28.233000000|True|
12951|3256|1|86166553|So, I just want to start, so what did you like about going to Delaware State? Was there any memory you wanna share?

What I like about going to Delaware State University is the family feel that Delaware State provides. When on campus you just feel like you are a part of one big family.Absolutely.  And you just mention something about the professors. Was there anything, in particular, you wanna say about that? Well, I am a teacher and so I was then in the education department and I just wanna say Dr. Austerling made sure that we had everything that we need to be able to graduate. And one professor I will always remember Dr. CJ Mastinson from the Ohio State. She made sure that we knew how to reach all students in the classroom. I remember having her for the middle school year. And I think I have her for two classes. I don't remember the name of the other one. But she thought me how to have a voice in the classroom. And she made sure that all students were able to hear my voice because my voice would be a catalyst for what they learn.

Absolutely. That's really profound you just said. I just wanna ask, is there anything else that comes to the mind that you wanna mention and I think we had a minute and 30 seconds so we still have a little bit more time if you wanna say or add anything else?

And I just wanna add, I am also a member of Delta Phi Theta Sorority Incorporated Upsilon Chapter and that was another a sisterhood in becoming of Delta. I learned about value lessons Delta need always persevere and can never give up. No matter what the obstacle is. And so I'm very grateful for my experience at Delaware State and I thank my students to Delaware State a lot. And I look forward to my own children going to Delaware State University.

Wow. I love to hear that. That's what great. We're gonna be grouping the story in the publication I guess by the category and theme. Based on what you spoke about and we have some different options here. But I was thinking was that fall under more on your career success? Yeah, I guess so. I think it will be more like culture, the campus culture.

So these are the options I have. I have first generation, homecoming, you know traditions, legacy, alumni, career success, love stories, lifelong friendships, faculty members, 1968 as well and others. But I'm thinking either career success or faculty members. Which one?

I think faculty members.  Yeah, I think that will be fantastic.|What I like about going to Delaware State University is the family feel that Delaware State provides. When on campus you just feel like you are a part of one big family. I am a teacher and so I was then in the Education Department and I just wanna say Dr. Osterling made sure that we had everything we needed to be able to graduate. Another professor I will always remember is Dr. CJ Mussington from The Ohio State. She made sure that we knew how to reach all students in the classroom. I remember having her for the middle school year. I think I had her for two classes.  She taught me how to have a voice in the classroom. She made sure that all students were able to hear my voice because my voice would be a catalyst for what they learned. I am also a member of Zeta Phi Beta Sorority Incorporated Upsilon Chapter and that was a sisterhood in becoming a Zeta. I learned valuable lessons from being a Zeta, including to persevere and to never give up no matter the obstacle. I'm very grateful for my experience at Delaware State and I take my students to Delaware State a lot. I look forward to my own children going to Delaware State University.|3||False|False|False|False|2019-06-03 14:39:32.807000000|PCI100020||PCI100201|2019-08-02 10:35:44.023000000||
12952|3256|1|86220607|Liese: We are going to start recording so whenever you're ready, you can go ahead and start.

James: Okay. We'll let me know.

Liese: Go ahead, Sir.


James: Okay. I came to Delaware State College in 1956. About eight or nine of us came up from lower Delaware which was graduation Jason Hig School. When we got there, we all registered, and we didn't have any rooms. So Dean Franklin asks us to stay in Lagman Hall which wasn't being used. So we all went into Lagman Hall, and what he did when they built Canwall Hall, he was the one who told us any room we wanted with the half of four years that we were there, we will appreciate that. So we stayed in that building for about six months and we went to Canwall Hall. And during that time, when I entered there, there was only 200 students on campus. I majored in agriculture. Dr. Winer and I graduated and everything. I play baseball on the baseball team. I graduated in 1961, but I couldn't find a job in agriculture. So I came back to DelState and took elementary education. It took me a couple of years. I worked in a school district for about 42 years. But my experience on Del State was very good. We were like a family. We were very small college. Too many buildings there, the college was agriculture. They were good in sports. They have a very good football team at that time. The teachers were really dedicated to us. And we had nothing to do, the food was okay.|I came to Delaware State College in 1956. I was with nine of my friends; we came from lower Delaware after graduating from Jason High School. The first thing we did when we got there was register, but unfortunately, we didn't have rooms to accommodate us. It was Dean Franklin who made a way for us to have some place to stay. He was very welcoming and told us that we could have any room we wanted in that hall. We did appreciate that kind gesture. We stayed in that building for about six months and then we had to transfer. During that time, there were only 200 students on campus. I was majoring in agriculture and was also playing for the baseball team. In 1961, I graduated, but I couldn't find a job in agriculture. Delaware State was the place for me to be because I needed to come back, and so I took elementary education. It took me another couple of years, but I worked in a school district for about 42 years. My experience at Delaware State was very good. We were like a family; we were a very small college. They were good at sports, they had a very good football team at that time, and the teachers were dedicated to us. I remember I had Dr. Weaver, and he knew everything about Delaware State. He taught us history, I believe. Dr. Weaver was a very good instructor. Ms. Grant was there, also. She was as good as Dr. Weaver. We all loved her. We had a nice choir. We would arrange vacations and stays on campus because we would travel. We would go to New York, Boston, and New Jersey, and we would pack our things and stay there the whole week. A lot of that was new to us because we'd never been that far before. We never got to travel anywhere because we were living in lower Delaware, and we were all far from things like that. My favorite memory would be the walks we used to take on Sundays. We used to take a walk around Delaware State, then walk downtown, and come all the way back to the other way on a highway. There was no traffic during that time. The guys and I used to stop and talk to girls. We would enjoy that walk. We would take that walk just about every Sunday; we didn't go home. If they had sporting events on campus, like football and basketball, we'd stay there as well. If it was not for Delaware State, I would not have experienced all the amazing involvement that contributed to my growth.|5||False|False|False|False|2019-06-03 14:54:35.623000000|PCI100201||PCI100020|2019-08-05 16:32:10.643000000||History Log has transcription that is not in the Audio Transcription section.
Please use Delaware State spelled out versus Del State.
There was a lot in the history log not included in the published version.
We do like the style of the Audio Transcription-name of PCI agent and then name of caller.
Also like the published version, could add more from the history log.
12953|3256|1|85897537|Terry: Great! (Well) Tell me your story.

John: Okay. Well, Dr. Price was um uh he played a major role in, not only Dr. Price but the Business Department as a whole. They're the ones who formulated me and got me on the right track of moving forward to become an entrepreneur. Coz my, well, my major was Business Education. But you know, a lot of my classes have been in the, you know, in the Business Building, basically. And they got me moving forward even before I graduated. In my senior year, uh going to my graduation, I had the newest car. Newest uh car on campus. Had a brand new 72 olds 98, in my senior year. Coz I work at, started my first business in my senior year. Painting houses in the city of um, what, East Orange, Newark, New Jersey. That's how I was able to start my entrepreneurship. Having Dr. Price and-and-and the other business teachers that were there. You know and right now, as of today, I have, I've been the owner of 20 businesses, 18 different businesses and 13 start-ups. I've been entrepreneur all my life and I'm lovin' it. You know?

Terry: Wow!

John: You know I'm lovin' it. We had it down but-but we are movin'. As a matter of fact, I came up with a plan um the-the you know, the sad part about it. I'm not gonna put on-on in my profile or nothin'. That's between you and I. But the Delaware State, you know, once Dr. Price left, the whole leadership um um *stutter* just totally just torpedoed itself.

Terry: Ahhh. (You know?) Yeah!

John: I tried to get, I set up uh I head eight million dollar endowment policy back in 1995. I took out eighteen million dollars, it cost me $8000 a month. In 20 years, it was, it will can do. And I want to give Delaware State a million dollars. We couldn't get a return call from the President's office.

Terry: Wow! Wow! Well, just *clashing of words* I need to see if you-Let me ask you a question. Let me ask you a question. You know, as you were telling how successful you'd been uh in your entrepreneurial life. I could almost picture Dr. Price with that smile on his face knowing that he had an impact on you.

John: Oh, yeah. Dr. Price, he was an awesome gentleman. He was awesome, he was awesome. He-you know, and everyone who got a professor in that building who taught Business and Economics, he was awesome. (That's what we like to hear.) *unclear audio* And they're the one that got me started. Moving towards entrepreneurship. I did a project, I'm working now with the HBCU now, trying to save the school. Save HBCU school, building new dorm and-and Delaware state build a new dorm and I did a presentation by three to four years *garbled*. They gave me a heads up, did they. You have seen it before, why would you come back? Let's talk. *garbled*

Terry: *laughs* Well, I'm sorry. I'm sorry about that. Well we-we've had- (Don't put it out there coz you know.) No, no, and what we'll do is we will take, we will edit your story and as I said we will get a copy out to ya. You can edit out the things that you don't want to include so as we went through you know, you can just edit out anything about the changes but we wanna really recognize Dr. Price and the other members of the business department and the impact that it had on you so I-I do really appreciate that and so what we're doing is--

Note: There are parts that should not be involved on the audio transcription.|As a business education major, Dr. Price and the Business Department played major roles in my education. Dr. Price set me on the right track to move forward and become an entrepreneur before I even graduated. Because of him, I was able to start my first business in my senior year. I painted houses in East Orange and Newark, New Jersey, and later, I worked to save Delaware State as an HBCU. Without Dr. Price and the other business teachers, I wouldn't be as successful as I am today. Dr. Price was an awesome gentleman, and everyone who had him as a professor during their time at Delaware State would agree. Now, I've been the owner of 20 businesses and 13 start-ups. I've been an entrepreneur all my life, and I'm loving it.|3||False|False|False|False|2019-06-03 15:56:42.047000000|PCI100295|2019-10-08 06:35:01.017000000|PCI100302|2019-10-08 09:26:22.563000000|True|
12954|3256|1|86129021|Ready.


Hi, I'm Francine McGriff, highest in the Dela State from 1973 until 1977. I am a second generation to attend Delaware State. My father attended and also my son, who's third generation attended Dela State. We've all been very successful. As a result of our education at Dela State, my father pursued a profession in education. I became a social worker and my son became an MD.  As a result of the education that we receive from Delaware State, I had many many professors that really influenced my life in one particular individual, Jethro Williams, who was very very instrumental in getting me on the right track.


Wonderful. And your son's a medical doctor?
Yeah. My son, he received a Mark Scholarship from Delaware State which allowed him to get his Ph.D. and then he went to medical school. And he now serves as a major in the US army.|I attended Delaware State from 1973 until 1977. I am the second generation to attend Delaware State. My father attended and my son, who's the third generation, attended Delaware State. We've all been very successful. As a result of our education at Delaware State, my father pursued a profession in education. I became a social worker and my son became a medical doctor. As a result of the education that we received from Delaware State, I had many professors that really influenced my life. One particular individual, Jethro Williams, was very instrumental in getting me on the right track. My son received a Mark Scholarship from Delaware State which allowed him to get his PhD and then he went to medical school. Now, he serves as a Major in the US Army.|4||False|False|False|False|2019-06-04 08:19:08.853000000|PCI100020|2019-07-05 09:03:15.680000000|PCI100201|2019-08-02 10:38:13.950000000||The transcription is incomplete. The audio is good but not all transcribed. Please complete.
12955|3256|1|86075957|Behalf of my sister, Robyn Skinner. I would just like to really thank Delaware State. It was a great impact on her life. When she left Delaware State she went on to very successful career and there she was until she unfortunately she left us on August 12, 2013. I  just so grateful for her and her life she loved her time at Delaware State. Again, she was just a wonderful person, a wonderful sister and I think a lot of it was because of her experience in the Delaware State. Thank you.


That is very touching. The relationship that you guys had, how you felt like maybe Delaware State led a lot to that. How so do you feel that might impacted her?


I think it affects her  a lot in a way she brought her out a lot. She would, before she was always, like little quiet, you know and I think the experience in there, it gave her confidence.


Woaah. Beautiful.|Told on behalf of my sister, Robyn Skinner. I would just like to really thank Delaware State. It was a great impact on her life. When she left Delaware State, she went on to a very successful career until she unfortunately left us on August 12, 2013. I  just am so grateful for her and her life. She loved her time at Delaware State. She was a wonderful person and a wonderful sister, and I think a lot of it was because of her experience at the University. I think her time at Delaware State affected her by bringing her out. Before, she was a little quiet, and the experience in school gave her confidence.|3||False|False|False|False|2019-06-04 08:55:25.637000000|PCI100020|2019-07-17 00:56:44.513000000|PCI100055|2019-08-06 10:58:25.543000000||
12956|3256|1|86317165|There we go. What is your story, sir?


I was the first African-American hired as a Research Chemist in the Medicinal Chemistry Department at McNeil Laboratory which is outside Philadelphia and is part of the Johnson & Johnson company. I believe that the success that I had there is due directly to three courses that I had in organic chemistry at Delaware State College.


That is fantastic. Was there a particular professor?
Department head at the time was Dr. Harry Williams


Is there anything you'd like to add to the story?
I think that's pretty much what I wanted to say. I would say that the success that I had was the research project that I was placed on. I was four times as successful in the number of compounds that isolated than what had been done previously to me joining the company.|I was the first African-American hired as a research chemist in the Medicinal Chemistry Department at McNeil Laboratory, which is outside Philadelphia and part of Johnson & Johnson. I believe that the success that I had there is due directly to three courses that I had in organic chemistry at Delaware State College. The department head at the time was Dr. Harry Williams. I would say that the success that I had was the research project that I was placed on; I was four times as successful in the number of compounds that isolated than what had been done previously to me joining the company.|3||False|False|False|False|2019-06-04 12:06:46.313000000|PCI100296|2019-07-03 12:13:34.743000000|PCI100201|2019-08-02 10:28:09.680000000||
12957|3256|1|86140527|Tell me about your degree, what did you get?


A degree in Psychology. I was 67 years old when I graduated. I finished with a 3.01 GPA, Magna Cum Laude, and I'm very proud of myself. I started out with one class at night in English class 'cos I was actually a transfer student from a college in California and I was able to get an A in English class so, you know, I went all year round taking at least nine credit hours each time and sometimes a class may have been more than three credits but not quite sure but anyway after all those hours I made it. I was on TV. Excited about that. I like to thank Delaware for allowing senior citizens to return to school tuition-free. That's an asset of Delaware.|I got a degree in psychology. I was 67 years old when I graduated. I finished with a 3.01 GPA, Magna Cum Laude, and I'm very proud of myself. I started out with one class at night in English class, because I was actually a transfer student from a college in California and I was able to get an A in English class so I went all year, taking at least nine credit hours each time. Sometimes a class may have been more than three credits, but I'm not quite sure. Anyway, after all those hours, I made it. I was on TV and I was excited about that. I'd like to thank Delaware for allowing senior citizens to return to school tuition-free; that's an asset of Delaware.|2||False|False|False|False|2019-06-04 13:22:55.137000000|PCI100296|2019-07-03 12:10:51.033000000|PCI100201|2019-08-02 10:27:41.773000000|True|
12958|3256|1|85942197|I came from a single parent. My mother raised me by herself who was an evangelist in Bethel AME Church in Wilmington, Delaware. Her strengths and her guidance led me to become a pastor as well. And what I used to do when I was a student in Delaware State College, at every football game, I used to wear a cape and a period of high top shoes with a derby on my head and go to the cafeteria and get the students roused up for the football game. I will preach to them, not knowing that God was preparing me for my ministry at that time. and it was at Delaware State University as a student that I got my calling into the ministry. I got ordained in the African Methodist Episcopal Church. I went to the Conference Minister Institute which prepared me further for my ministry. I got ordained in 1962 and became a full pledged pastor, receiving my first church in a little community called Linwood Pennsylvania where I had five members and at that time I still was a member of Bethel Church and my late mother who was a ministerial member at Bethel, I had raised money for my conference assessment and Bethel Church would bring a bus load of their members to my little small church and helped me raise money to pay my conference obligation. And then I went on to school,  got my degree from Delaware State in 1961, and then I got my Masters degree from Glassboro State College, now Rowan University and went on and got my ministerial philosophical degree from the New York University in New York City where I have a Masters degree of  Sacred Theology.

It was beautiful. It was something that my colleagues of the time enjoyed the pep and the life and the beauty and the fellowship that I gave to arouse the campus for our football team and other athletic sports.

I never thought that I would give good college 'cos my mother, a single parent works hard doing four dollars a day in car fair. And we live in a two-room apartment, 9th and French, in Remington, Delaware and that's where I got my foundation you know, my mother could not afford to buy me like, decent clothes. She works for a doctor and his name was Dr. Wagner. And Dr. Wagner was about my size and all of the suits that Dr. Wagner had outgrew, they were given to me and that's how I, you know, got my clothing and my mother also worked for the manager of Wilton Dry Goods and when school opened up, my mother would send a note down to him by me, and I just had bought my school clothes, buy everything that I own that time for Wilton Dry Goods at a discount price, and they took it out of my mother's wages which she got paid until everything was paid for but I had the clothes in advance.|I came from a single parent; my mother raised me by herself. My mother was an evangelist at Bethel AME in Wilmington, Delaware. Her strengths and her guidance led me to become a pastor as well. I never thought that I would attend a good college. We lived in a two-room apartment in Remington, Delaware, and that's where I got my foundation. My mother could not afford to buy me decent clothes. She worked for a doctor who was about my size, and all of the suits that Dr. Wagner had outgrown were given to me and that's how I got my clothing. She also worked for the manager of Wilton Dry Goods, and when school opened up, my mother would send a note down to him. I bought my school clothes, and I would buy everything that I owned at the time from Wilton Dry Goods at a discount price, and they took it out of my mother's wages. When I was a student at Delaware State College, at every football game, I used to wear a cape and a pair of high top shoes with a derby on my head and go to the cafeteria and get the student body roused up for the football game. It was beautiful. It was something that my colleagues of the time enjoyed- the pep and the life and the beauty and the fellowship that I gave to arouse the campus for our football team and other athletic sports. I would preach to them, not knowing that God was preparing me for my ministry at that time. It was at Delaware State University as a student that I got my calling into the ministry. I was ordained in the African Methodist Episcopal Church. I went to the Conference Minister Institute which prepared me further for my ministry. I got ordained in 1962 and became a full-fledged pastor, receiving my first church in a little community called Linwood Pennsylvania where I had five members. At that time, I was still a member of Bethel Church. I had raised money for my conference assessment and Bethel Church would bring a busload of their members to my little small church and helped me raise money to pay my conference obligation. Then, I went on to school, got my degree from Delaware State in 1961, and then I got my master's degree from Glassboro State College, now Rowan University, and went on and got my ministerial philosophical degree from the New York University in New York City where I have a master's degree in sacred theology.|5||False|False|False|False|2019-06-04 15:37:41.813000000|PCI100296|2019-08-05 03:32:03.830000000|PCI100055|2019-08-06 11:22:50.020000000|True|
12959|3256|1|85874525|Okay. You may begin.

Okay, thank you. I was raised on Delaware State campus from the time that I was born. My father was a professor of Education and Child Psych at Delaware State. My mother was a Head Circulation at the library, so I was intricately involved with Delaware State. I was at a homecoming I believe when I was about  five I had the picture but of course I am not looking at it right now.  I was one of the homecoming float I believe it was when I'm about five but I went to nursery school at Delaware State and we lived on campus until I was ten. And then finally moved off  campus but of course my parents still working on campus as a librarian and a professor. As well as, going up on Delaware State of which they are some very very memorable times with the group of other kids.  And that with there Dr. Mishoe, who was president for many many years I grew up with his kids. So it's great thing Wilma as being the president now. We all played together and run around the campus together. Did Halloween together. Dorcy Calbert,  I don't know  she's affiliated with Delaware State now but she lived with Wilma, that's my sister. And her dad was very much affiliated with the business school. I can't remember his title off- hand. But there were group of kids that we all grew up with my brother and my sister and I on campus. And we had some very very fun memories of how school, of how Delaware State was back in the 50s and the 60s.  And then once I got out of high school, I went to college there. My parents took a sabbatical from Delaware State, and made a  run-around the world as my dad researched various educational system in Africa and South America and in the Caribbean. And my freshman year when they were on sabbatical was a totally different introduction into  Delaware State as a student and not as a child growing up so I have two various aspects of Delaware State with totally different memories, very good, but different status of my life and different reason. So, Delaware State means a lot to me for various reasons some things are more important to me in terms of childhood, others more important in terms of my college years. Dr. Winder, who was the dean of Delaware State for many many years was my guardian when my parents were on a sabbatical on the first year. And because of that he got very closed to a group of ladies that I went to college with, and they got the chance to know Dr. Winder. You know, there's a whole little story with that, but it's all good. But he used to come and visit us and check up on everybody with a very close connection that we all had because Dr. Winder was my guardian and  hence I was involved then, so he wanted to know. So, that parental attitude, I guess, personal life, involvement that sometimes you don't get in larger universities, Delaware State is still considered as small university, which is good.  But there is a personalized aspect that we had, I don't know if that is still in that way, well obviously I graduated in  '77. That is very very nice.

I have a lot of great memories at Delaware State with two major points in my life.

I'm sure, yes. What it's like going to school, you being at the school when your parents are in sabbatical? What's the difference? What's its like being by yourself as a student?

Well, to just go back, when I first decided I was going to college the initial school was Boston University and that's where I had wanted to go, that's where my dad graduated his masters rung. But once my parents sat me down and my dad told me that they were going sabbatical, they asked if I would do my first year in Delaware State so that  I could still watch the house and our property and be closed by coz my brother will live in Boston. Reluctantly, I said I would do that and ironically of course once you started college unless it only clashes it with you,  but if you develop friendship and the camaraderie and you give in to your quest then will not gonna transfer. The first day that I started college, there were a group of ladies on the way that I'm living in and from that day forward we became the best of friends. We are called the 'unholy seven' by Dr. Winder. We stayed friends throughout the college years and to this day we all still friends now. That was a very strong tie for me as well as going to HBCU. Having grown up on it was very significant for a different reason.

But then when I went to elementary and middle in high school, there were predominantly whites. The campus slightly different atmosphere growing up in high school, elementary middle versus my nursery school and kindergarten in the atmosphere that I grew up in the area of  Delaware State campus. And then, coming back to it in college another atmosphere where all we did have, white students. But the majority of the white students were day students, they did not live on campus. They took all the classes, they got their education, but they left.

I'm just curious. I would love to know more about this 'unholy seven'? How that name came about and I love that and I love to know more.

That came about, basically, from Dr. Winder. As I said, you know, he and my dad are very very close friends. So he knew me growing up. Dr. Winder knew me from the time that I was born. Our family was close. My parents were very very close to the Winders. He knew me and all that he did know any of my friends, he knew me. So, by knowing me,  and knowing how I was, and how I have been raised I guess he just took a liking to the girls that I had started to. He involved them because as my guardian he would immediately checking up on me, how's everything going, is going right, he would see this group of girls that I would be involved in. Knowing me and knowing how I have been raised he took the involvement in the friendships that I would have with the young ladies and I guess he saw that they are all, you know, great young ladies with aspirations and desires. How the name came about was probably more about comments that we would make to him when we would meet with him, I'm sure we're talking about guys, and parties and say the bad nature, because I said Dr. Winder knew me, so he knew me being very honest and very open. And will say what I wanna say.

I can remember when my dad passed, because in my junior year in February, my dad died of cancer. That totally took me over the edge. And I'm not coming out of it. My other friends, Divine George, her dad died one year ago. So she trying to talk to me. I'm going to clash. My whole personality had changed. They all went Dr. Winder, I assume, or someone went to Dr. Winder, to talk to me about coming out of my depression, my mood, my grief about my dad passing. It was great to have someone like that, who was totally all about just being a good person. He was my guardian.  There were some other people that my father could have picked coz he'd been in the campus, you know my parents been there 27 years, he had been many many years but he chose Dr. Winder.|I was raised on the Delaware State campus from the time that I was born in housing provided to the faculty. My father was a professor of education and child psychology, and my mother was head circulation at the library, so I was intricately involved with Delaware State while growing up. I was a member of the homecoming parade when I was still in Del State's nursery and kindergarten school. We lived on campus until I was ten, and then we moved off campus, but my parents continued working at DSU. While growing up on campus, there were some very, very memorable times with other children that grew up on campus. Dr. Holland initially was president, and I was good friends with his daughter, Lucy. Then, Dr. Mishoe was president. During Dr. Mishoe's time, my brother, sister, and I were friends with all of the Mishoe children like Rita and Wilma, as well as Dr. Wynder's kids, Billy and Ruthie, Dr. Talbert's kids, Dorothy and Ernie, and many others. There were very fun memories of how Delaware State was back in the 1950s and the 1960s. Then, once I graduated from high school, I went to college there. My parents took a sabbatical from Delaware State and traveled the world, as my dad researched various educational systems in Africa and South America and in the Caribbean. My freshman year, when my parents were on sabbatical, was a totally different introduction to Delaware State as a student and not as a child growing up, so I have two completely different views at different times in my life of Delaware State University with totally different memories. Delaware State means a lot to me for various reasons, and some things are more important to me in terms of childhood, others more important in terms of my college years. Dr. Winder, who was the dean of Delaware State for many, many years, was one of my dad's closest friends. He was my guardian when my parents were on sabbatical in the first year. Because of that, he got very close to a group of ladies that I went to college with and they got the chance to know Dr. Winder. He used to come and visit us and check up on everybody with a very close connection that we all had because Dr. Winder was my guardian. He wanted to know the ladies I was involved with. That personal involvement and developing a personal relationship that sometimes you didn't get in larger universities was found at Delaware State because it's still considered a small university, which is good. The first day that I started college, there was a group of ladies on the same wing that I lived on, and we struck up a friendship. From that day forward, we became the best of friends throughout our college years. We were called the 'Unholy Seven' by Dr. Winder which always elicited a laugh! To this day, we are still friends now. Having grown up on the campus was very significant for a different reason. Dr. Winder knew me from the time that I was born and our families were close. By knowing me and knowing how I was and how I had been raised, I guess he just took a liking to the girls that I had become friends with. I can remember when my dad died of cancer in my junior year in February. That totally took me over the edge for a long time. I was not coming out of being depressed, and one of the 'Unholy Seven' friends, Yvonne, had also suffered a loss the previous summer. Her dad died one year ago. She was trying to talk to me and all of my 'Unholy Seven' friends to get me out of my funk. When nothing seemed to work, they all went to Dr. Winder, I assume, or someone went to Dr. Winder, to ask him to meet with us and try to talk to me about coming out of my depression and my grief about my dad passing. Dr. Wynder did just that- he had all of us come to his office and he talked to me about moving forward. I was not to forget my dad, but to try to forget the pain. It was great to have someone like that who was all about being a good person. He was my guardian. There were some other people that my father could have picked, but Dr. Winder was my dad's best buddy. His care for me proved to me why he was my dad's best buddy.|2||False|False|False|False|2019-06-05 08:08:56.747000000|PCI100297||PCI100201|2019-08-02 10:26:02.300000000|True|
12960|3256|1|86100399|04:59
C: -- now, just start talking if you want.

A: Absolutely. We're recording now, so you can start whenever you're ready.

C: Okay. The year I went there, '69 was the war in Vietnam were had to speak. I was the number one in the laddery draft, so I had to get in the college fast. And my mother is an alumnae of Delaware State. She said, 'Let's check Delaware State.' And I go there every summer coz my grandmother lives there. We do a family vacation. And I urgently got into Delaware State for I was so blown away, first from jazz musicians. We, the professors and I, we just hang on, play jazz and learn jazz together, got jamming sessions. That was so (00:48). That's how you get a lot of it, first on formal courses and compositions, amazing, you know. The way they describe things in very rich, colorful, artistic ways.

And academically I was in Psychology. The Psychology professors taught me Science and clinical applications. The life-changing event that happened there was that, there was an internship at Princeton University for students who are doing well. And so, as me and other young women who are competing for that, and I was fortunate to be selected and I did the research of Corsten and I was ultimately recluded and get accepted to the Ph.D. program. That was my first doctorate and then after, I applied at Red Cross and  Princeton at the same time. And they invited me, both accepted me but Princeton ultimately gave me alone and Red Cross gave me a full ride. So, I turned Princeton down. So, I go to the Red Cross, they came back for a full ride. (02:02) After I finished Princeton, I  went to finish my degree at Red Cross. So, my whole concept is integrative mind by the way they taught us, that thank it Delaware State. Not just nearly this one verbal, this verbal, think about the whole big picture and the success of my research teaching and my practice. I can go on, but you know--

A: Well, this is great and I appreciate you for sharing that. It's really struck me when you said your lifechanging moment during your internship to Princeton and you ultimately ended up at Red Cross. But it also struck to me that you mentioned your integrative approach came from Delaware State. Which professors --

C: Um, Albert Miller. Dr. Albert Miller, chairman of the department. He could have been really skewed but dedicated to students like me at Delaware.

A: And the other thing that you mentioned to me that really struck me because I have a grandfather who with a similar situation. You mentioned being number one in the draft laddery and you have urgently get in, you mentioned part of the emphasis for going there was your mom being alumnae and had already vacation there. Once you get there and you see this, you know, you got professors that you're able to play jazz music with and things like that, did you considered becoming a music major at that point or you already know that you want to be involved with Psychology?

C: That's an interesting question. It's my (04:00). I am minored in Music, majored in Psychology. But Music served me in my entire career. My father was a dentist. He said (04:17). So, encouraged me to do both. But even to this day, my professors here at Craven Medical Center and I still have a group. We play, my biggest engagement is the taste of the Brown. We have the central stage of  Brown Stadium. We invited all the local restaurants. There's fundraising for the Hunger Foundation. And music was an intricate part of my work, you know to this day.

A:  That's amazing. I very much appreciate you ---

01:13
A: --whenever you're ready.

C: Okay. Again, Delaware State launched me to do a creative and courageous career. My first research was internationally. My first research was looking ironically idea can then hypnosis changed the immunes system and one came nearly pioneers of this area called Psychoneuroimmunology which may think can be radical enough now. And then, I had a limitation to go to (00:32) in the middle of the war just to study rapid wound healing where people could (00:37) their body and show rapid healing. And I flew up there on my own and got through security and formed the most interesting church and I came back and learned how to do that. On tv, I put a (00:52) into my chicken, done research on that up to the 6th edition of your mind-body in a great health textbook so, yeah, I'm thankful with the confidence and knowledge-based that I got there to do that creative thing. Okay--

A: Excellent---|I went to Delaware State in 1969 when the war in Vietnam was at its peak. I was number one in the lottery draft, so I had to get into college fast. My mother was an alumna of Delaware State, so she said, 'Let's check out Delaware State.' I actually went there every summer because my grandmother lived there and we did a family vacation there. I urgently got into Delaware State and was blown away by the jazz musicians. The professors and I played and learned jazz together, and we got into jamming sessions. I minored in music, and that served me in my entire career. I also took formal courses and compositions, and the professors described things in very rich, colorful, and artistic ways. I majored in psychology, and the professors taught me science and clinical applications. I learned so much from Dr. Albert Miller. He could've been at an Ivy League school, but he dedicated himself to Delaware State and to students like me. A life-changing event that happened there was when an internship was offered at Princeton University for students who were doing well. I was fortunate to be selected among the others who were competing, and I got to do research at Princeton. Ultimately, I was recruited and accepted by the Ph.D. program. That was my first doctorate, and after that, I applied to Rutgers and Princeton at the same time. They both accepted me, but Rutgers gave me a full ride. After I finished at Princeton, I finished another degree at Rutgers. My whole concept has been integrating the mind and body as they taught me at Delaware State. I don't think narrowly about one or two variables, but I think about the whole big picture. That's been the success of my research, teaching, and practice. Looking back, Delaware State launched me into a creative and courageous career. My first research was conducted internationally, and I looked at how hypnosis changed the immune system. I became one of the early pioneers of an area called psychoneuroimmunology. Then, I had an invitation to go to Baghdad in the middle of the war and study rapid wound healing. I flew out there on my own and got through security, and that became one of the most interesting trips. I'm so thankful for the confidence and knowledge base that I got at Delaware State because I get to do these creative things.|5|jazz musicians,jazz,Psychology|False|False|False|False|2019-06-05 08:46:21.567000000|PCI100297|2019-10-21 10:42:28.957000000|PCI100302|2019-10-30 10:57:16.700000000|True|
